README.md, before:

# DBMux - Database Management CLI

A flexible, modern database management CLI tool built with TypeScript. It supports multiple database systems through a driver-based architecture, with PostgreSQL as the primary implementation.

## Features

- 🔮 **Multi-Database Support**: Easily extendable to support MySQL, SQLite, and more.
- 🔗 **Connection Management**: Save and reuse database connections for any supported DB.
- 🛡️ **Type-safe CLI**: Built with [brocli](https://github.com/drizzle-team/brocli) for robust argument parsing and validation.
- 🗃️ **Persistent Config**: Connections saved to `~/.dbmux/config.json`.
- 💾 **Database Backup & Restore**: Production-ready pg_dump and pg_restore (PostgreSQL only).
- 🚀 **Modern Architecture**: ESM modules, strict TypeScript, and a clean, driver-based design.

## Architecture

DBMux is built on a driver-based architecture that makes it easy to extend and support multiple database systems. The core logic is decoupled from any specific database implementation, allowing for a flexible and scalable design.

- **`DatabaseDriver` Interface**: The contract for all database operations is defined in `src/db-drivers/database-driver.ts`. Any new database driver must implement this interface.
- **Driver Implementations**: Each supported database has its own driver class (e.g., `PostgresDriver`) that contains the specific logic for that database.
- **Driver Factory**: The `createDriver` function in `src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts` is responsible for instantiating the correct driver based on the connection's `type`.

### Extending DBMux (Adding a New Database)

To add support for a new database (e.g., MySQL), follow these steps:

1.  **Create the Driver**: Create a new file, `src/db-drivers/mysql-driver.ts`, and implement the `DatabaseDriver` interface.

    ```typescript
    // src/db-drivers/mysql-driver.ts
    import type { DatabaseDriver } from "./database-driver.js";
    // ... other imports

    export class MySqlDriver implements DatabaseDriver {
        // Implement all required methods:
        // connect, disconnect, testConnection, getDatabases, etc.
    }
    ```

2.  **Update the Factory**: Add the new driver to `src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts`.

    ```typescript
    // src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts
    import { MySqlDriver } from "./mysql-driver.js";
    // ...

    export function createDriver(type: DatabaseType): DatabaseDriver {
        switch (type) {
            // ...
            case "mysql":
                return new MySqlDriver();
            // ...
        }
    }
    ```

3.  **Update Types**: If needed, add the new database type to `DatabaseType` in `src/types/database.ts` and adjust `ConnectionConfig` for any specific connection options.

4.  **Install Dependencies**: Install the required Node.js package for the new database.

    ```bash
    pnpm add mysql2
    ```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js**: `v22.0.0` or higher
- **pnpm**: `v10.0.0` or higher

This project uses specific versions of Node.js and pnpm, which are defined in the `engines` field of the `package.json` file.

## Installation

### From npm (when published)

```bash
npm install -g dbmux
# or
pnpm add -g dbmux
```

### From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bhagyamudgal/dbmux.git
cd dbmux
pnpm install
pnpm build
npm link
```

## Development

The development setup includes TypeScript, ESLint for code quality, and Prettier for formatting. To add support for a new database, you would create a new class that implements the `DatabaseDriver` interface in the `src/db-drivers` directory.

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Run in development mode (with hot reload)
pnpm dev:watch

# Build for production
pnpm build

# Type checking
pnpm typecheck

# Linting
pnpm lint

# Formatting
pnpm format
pnpm format:check
```

## Usage

### Connect to a Database

You can connect to any supported database by specifying the flags, or run the command without flags for an interactive setup.

```bash
# Interactive mode
dbmux connect

# Flag-based mode
dbmux connect --type postgresql -n my-postgres -u postgres -d myapp_production
```

### List Operations

```bash
# List saved connections
dbmux list --connections
dbmux config list

# List all databases
dbmux list --databases

# List tables in current database
dbmux list --tables

# List tables in specific schema
dbmux list --tables --schema public

# Use specific saved connection
dbmux list --tables -n production
```

### Execute Queries

```bash
# Execute a simple query
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM users LIMIT 5"

# Execute with specific output format
dbmux query -q "SELECT name, email FROM users" --format json
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM orders" --format csv

# Execute from file
dbmux query -f queries.sql

# Use saved connection
dbmux query -n production -q "SELECT version()"

# Limit results
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM logs" --limit 100
```

### Database Backup & Restore (PostgreSQL Only)

```bash
# Create a database dump (interactive mode)
dbmux dump

# Create dump with specific database and output file
dbmux dump -d myapp_production -o backup

# Create dump with custom format
dbmux dump -d myapp_db --format plain

# Create dump with verbose output
dbmux dump -d myapp_db --verbose

# Restore from a dump file (interactive mode)
dbmux restore

# Restore specific file to new database
dbmux restore -f backup.dump --create

# Restore and drop existing database
dbmux restore -f backup.dump -d myapp_dev --drop

# Restore with verbose output
dbmux restore -f backup.dump --verbose
```

### Configuration Management

Run commands with flags, or use the interactive prompts for adding and removing connections.

```bash
# Add a new connection interactively
dbmux config add

# Remove a connection interactively
dbmux config remove

# List all saved connections
dbmux config list

# Set default connection
dbmux config default -n production

# Show configuration file location and contents
dbmux config show
```

## Commands Reference

### `dbmux connect [options]`

Connect to a database. If required flags (like `--user` or `--file`) are omitted, it starts an interactive setup.

| Option       | Alias | Description                              | Default        | Required (non-interactive) |
| ------------ | ----- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------------------------- |
| `--type`     |       | Database type (e.g., `postgresql`)       | `postgresql`   | No                         |
| `--name`     | `-n`  | Connection name for saving               | auto-generated | No                         |
| `--host`     | `-H`  | Database host (not for SQLite)           | `localhost`    | No                         |
| `--port`     | `-p`  | Database port (not for SQLite)           | `5432`         | No                         |
| `--user`     | `-u`  | Database username (not for SQLite)       | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--password` | `-w`  | Database password                        | prompt         | No                         |
| `--database` | `-d`  | Database name (not for SQLite)           | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--file`     |       | File path for SQLite connection          | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--ssl`      |       | Use SSL connection (PostgreSQL only)     | `false`        | No                         |
| `--save`     |       | Save connection configuration            | `true`         | No                         |
| `--test`     |       | Test connection without saving           | `false`        | No                         |
| `--verbose`  |       | Enable verbose logging from `pg_restore` | `false`        | No                         |

### `dbmux list [options]`

List databases, tables, or saved connections.

| Option          | Alias  | Description              |
| --------------- | ------ | ------------------------ |
| `--databases`   | `--db` | List all databases       |
| `--tables`      | `-t`   | List tables in database  |
| `--connections` | `-c`   | List saved connections   |
| `--connection`  | `-n`   | Use specific connection  |
| `--schema`      |        | Schema for table listing |
| `--limit`       | `-l`   | Limit number of rows     |

### `dbmux query [options]`

Execute SQL queries with flexible output.

| Option         | Alias | Description                    | Default |
| -------------- | ----- | ------------------------------ | ------- |
| `--sql`        | `-q`  | SQL query to execute           |         |
| `--file`       | `-f`  | Execute SQL from file          |         |
| `--connection` | `-n`  | Use saved connection           |         |
| `--format`     |       | Output format (table/json/csv) | table   |
| `--limit`      | `-l`  | Limit number of rows           |         |

### `dbmux dump [options]`

Create a backup of a PostgreSQL database. This command requires `pg_dump` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

| Option         | Alias      | Description                                   | Default  |
| -------------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `--connection` | `-c`, `-n` | Use a specific saved connection               | default  |
| `--database`   | `-d`       | The database to dump (interactive if not set) | -        |
| `--output`     | `-o`       | The output file path (e.g., `backup.dump`)    | auto-gen |
| `--format`     | `-F`       | Dump format (`custom`, `plain`, `tar`, `dir`) | `custom` |
| `--verbose`    |            | Enable verbose logging from `pg_dump`         | `false`  |

### `dbmux restore [options]`

Restore a PostgreSQL database from a dump file. This command requires `pg_restore` and `psql` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

| Option         | Alias      | Description                                       | Default |
| -------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `--connection` | `-c`, `-n` | Use a specific saved connection                   | default |
| `--file`       | `-f`       | The dump file to restore (interactive if not set) | -       |
| `--database`   | `-d`       | The target database name (interactive if not set) | -       |
| `--create`     |            | Create the target database before restoring       | `false` |
| `--drop`       |            | Drop the database before recreating and restoring | `false` |
| `--verbose`    |            | Enable verbose logging from `pg_restore`          | `false` |

### `dbmux config <subcommand>`

Manage configuration and connections.

- `dbmux config add` - Add a new connection interactively
- `dbmux config list` - List all saved connections
- `dbmux config remove [name]` - Remove a connection (interactive if name is omitted)
- `dbmux config default -n <name>` - Set default connection
- `dbmux config show` - Show config file and settings

## Configuration

DBMux stores configuration in `~/.dbmux/config.json`. Each connection now has a `type` field.

```json
{
    "connections": {
        "my-postgres": {
            "type": "postgresql",
            "host": "localhost",
            "port": 5432,
            "user": "postgres",
            "database": "myapp_dev",
            "ssl": false
        },
        "my-sqlite": {
            "type": "sqlite",
            "filePath": "./db.sqlite"
        }
    },
    "defaultConnection": "local",
    "settings": {
        "logLevel": "info",
        "autoConnect": false,
        "queryTimeout": 30000
    }
}
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── commands/          # Command implementations
│   ├── connect.ts     # Database connection logic
│   ├── dump.ts        # Database dump operations (pg_dump)
│   ├── restore.ts     # Database restore operations (pg_restore)
│   ├── list.ts        # List databases/tables/connections
│   ├── query.ts       # SQL query execution
│   └── config.ts      # Configuration management
├── db-drivers/        # Database-specific implementations
│   ├── database-driver.ts
│   └── postgres-driver.ts
├── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── database.ts    # Database-related types
├── utils/             # Utility functions
│   ├── config.ts      # Configuration file management
│   ├── database.ts    # PostgreSQL connection utilities
│   ├── dump-restore.ts # Dump & restore utility functions
│   └── logger.ts      # Colored logging utilities
└── index.ts           # Main CLI entry point (BroCLI)
.
├── .cursorules        # Your custom rules for the assistant
├── .prettierrc.json   # Prettier formatting rules
└── eslint.config.js   # ESLint configuration
```

## Dependencies

**Runtime:**

- `@drizzle-team/brocli` - Modern CLI framework
- `pg` - PostgreSQL client for Node.js
- `cli-table3` - For displaying tabular data
- `@inquirer/prompts` - For interactive prompts

**Development:**

- `typescript` - Type safety and modern JavaScript features
- `tsx` - TypeScript execution for development
- `eslint` - Code quality linter
- `@typescript-eslint/parser` - ESLint parser for TypeScript
- `@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin` - ESLint rules for TypeScript
- `prettier` - Code formatter
- `eslint-config-prettier` - Disables ESLint formatting rules
- `globals` - ESLint global variables

## npm Publishing

The package is configured for npm publishing with:

- Proper `bin` entry for global installation
- `prepublishOnly` script for automatic building
- Comprehensive `files` array for package inclusion
- Rich metadata and keywords for discoverability

## Detailed Commands

### `connect`

Connect to a database. You can connect to a pre-existing saved connection, or create a new one. Creating a new connection will prompt you to save it for future use.

```bash
dbmux connect
# or specify a saved connection
dbmux connect --name my-connection
```

This command sets the chosen connection as the "active" connection for your current session, which will be used by other commands until you `disconnect` or choose a new one.

### `config`

Manage your saved connections.

- **`config add`**: Interactively add a new connection.
- **`config list`**: List all saved connections.
- **`config remove`**: Remove a saved connection.
- **`config default <name>`**: Set the default connection.
- **`config show`**: Show the full configuration file.
- **`config path`**: Display the path to your config file.
- **`config rename`**: Interactively rename a connection.
- **`config manage`**: Open an interactive menu for connection management.

### `list`

List databases, tables, or saved connections.

- `--databases`: List all databases.
- `--tables`: List tables in the current database.
- `--connections`: List all saved connection names.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: Temporarily switch to a different database for this command.
- `--schema <schema_name>`: Specify a schema (default: `public`).

### `query`

Execute SQL queries.

- `--sql <"query">`: The SQL query to execute.
- `--file <path>`: Path to a `.sql` file.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: Temporarily switch to a different database for this command.
- `--format <format>`: Output format (`table`, `json`, `csv`).
- `--limit <number>`: Limit the number of returned rows.

### `dump`

Create a backup of a PostgreSQL database. This command requires `pg_dump` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: The database to dump (interactive if not set).
- `--output <path>`: Output file path.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose logging.

### `restore`

Restore a database from a dump file.

- `--file <path>`: Path to the dump file.
- `--database <db_name>`: The target database name.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--create`: Create the database before restoring.
- `--drop`: Drop the database before restoring.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose logging.

### `status`

Shows the current active (session) and default (saved) connections.

```bash
dbmux status
```

### `disconnect`

Clears the active connection from your session, reverting all subsequent commands to use the saved default connection.

```bash
dbmux disconnect
```

## Contributing

<!-- ... existing code ... -->

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Changelog

For a detailed list of changes, please see the [changelog directory](./changelog).

```

```

```

```

Commit message:

feat(testing): add vitest and initial test suite

README.md, after:

# DBMux - Database Management CLI

A flexible, modern database management CLI tool built with TypeScript. It supports multiple database systems through a driver-based architecture, with PostgreSQL as the primary implementation.

## Features

- 🔮 **Multi-Database Support**: Easily extendable to support MySQL, SQLite, and more.
- 🔗 **Connection Management**: Save and reuse database connections for any supported DB.
- 🛡️ **Type-safe CLI**: Built with [brocli](https://github.com/drizzle-team/brocli) for robust argument parsing and validation.
- 🗃️ **Persistent Config**: Connections saved to `~/.dbmux/config.json`.
- 💾 **Database Backup & Restore**: Production-ready pg_dump and pg_restore (PostgreSQL only).
- 🚀 **Modern Architecture**: ESM modules, strict TypeScript, and a clean, driver-based design.

## Architecture

DBMux is built on a driver-based architecture that makes it easy to extend and support multiple database systems. The core logic is decoupled from any specific database implementation, allowing for a flexible and scalable design.

- **`DatabaseDriver` Interface**: The contract for all database operations is defined in `src/db-drivers/database-driver.ts`. Any new database driver must implement this interface.
- **Driver Implementations**: Each supported database has its own driver class (e.g., `PostgresDriver`) that contains the specific logic for that database.
- **Driver Factory**: The `createDriver` function in `src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts` is responsible for instantiating the correct driver based on the connection's `type`.

### Extending DBMux (Adding a New Database)

To add support for a new database (e.g., MySQL), follow these steps:

1.  **Create the Driver**: Create a new file, `src/db-drivers/mysql-driver.ts`, and implement the `DatabaseDriver` interface.

    ```typescript
    // src/db-drivers/mysql-driver.ts
    import type { DatabaseDriver } from "./database-driver.js";
    // ... other imports

    export class MySqlDriver implements DatabaseDriver {
        // Implement all required methods:
        // connect, disconnect, testConnection, getDatabases, etc.
    }
    ```

2.  **Update the Factory**: Add the new driver to `src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts`.

    ```typescript
    // src/db-drivers/driver-factory.ts
    import { MySqlDriver } from "./mysql-driver.js";
    // ...

    export function createDriver(type: DatabaseType): DatabaseDriver {
        switch (type) {
            // ...
            case "mysql":
                return new MySqlDriver();
            // ...
        }
    }
    ```

3.  **Update Types**: If needed, add the new database type to `DatabaseType` in `src/types/database.ts` and adjust `ConnectionConfig` for any specific connection options.

4.  **Install Dependencies**: Install the required Node.js package for the new database.

    ```bash
    pnpm add mysql2
    ```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js**: `v22.0.0` or higher
- **pnpm**: `v10.0.0` or higher

This project uses specific versions of Node.js and pnpm, which are defined in the `engines` field of the `package.json` file.

## Installation

### From npm (when published)

```bash
npm install -g dbmux
# or
pnpm add -g dbmux
```

### From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bhagyamudgal/dbmux.git
cd dbmux
pnpm install
pnpm build
npm link
```

## Development

The development setup includes TypeScript, ESLint for code quality, and Prettier for formatting. To add support for a new database, you would create a new class that implements the `DatabaseDriver` interface in the `src/db-drivers` directory.

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Run in development mode (with hot reload)
pnpm dev:watch

# Build for production
pnpm build

# Type checking
pnpm typecheck

# Linting
pnpm lint

# Formatting
pnpm format
pnpm format:check
```

### Testing

This project uses [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) for unit testing. The testing philosophy is to test each command in complete isolation by mocking its dependencies (like file system access and loggers). This ensures that tests are fast, reliable, and don't have side effects.

Tests are located in the `tests/` directory and follow the naming convention `*.test.ts`.

```bash
# Run the entire test suite once
pnpm test

# Run tests in watch mode
pnpm test:watch

# Run tests and generate a coverage report
pnpm coverage
```

## Usage

### Connect to a Database

You can connect to any supported database by specifying the flags, or run the command without flags for an interactive setup.

```bash
# Interactive mode
dbmux connect

# Flag-based mode
dbmux connect --type postgresql -n my-postgres -u postgres -d myapp_production
```

### List Operations

```bash
# List saved connections
dbmux list --connections
dbmux config list

# List all databases
dbmux list --databases

# List tables in current database
dbmux list --tables

# List tables in specific schema
dbmux list --tables --schema public

# Use specific saved connection
dbmux list --tables -n production
```

### Execute Queries

```bash
# Execute a simple query
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM users LIMIT 5"

# Execute with specific output format
dbmux query -q "SELECT name, email FROM users" --format json
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM orders" --format csv

# Execute from file
dbmux query -f queries.sql

# Use saved connection
dbmux query -n production -q "SELECT version()"

# Limit results
dbmux query -q "SELECT * FROM logs" --limit 100
```

### Database Backup & Restore (PostgreSQL Only)

```bash
# Create a database dump (interactive mode)
dbmux dump

# Create dump with specific database and output file
dbmux dump -d myapp_production -o backup

# Create dump with custom format
dbmux dump -d myapp_db --format plain

# Create dump with verbose output
dbmux dump -d myapp_db --verbose

# Restore from a dump file (interactive mode)
dbmux restore

# Restore specific file to new database
dbmux restore -f backup.dump --create

# Restore and drop existing database
dbmux restore -f backup.dump -d myapp_dev --drop

# Restore with verbose output
dbmux restore -f backup.dump --verbose
```

### Configuration Management

Run commands with flags, or use the interactive prompts for adding and removing connections.

```bash
# Add a new connection interactively
dbmux config add

# Remove a connection interactively
dbmux config remove

# List all saved connections
dbmux config list

# Set default connection
dbmux config default -n production

# Show configuration file location and contents
dbmux config show
```

## Commands Reference

### `dbmux connect [options]`

Connect to a database. If required flags (like `--user` or `--file`) are omitted, it starts an interactive setup.

| Option       | Alias | Description                              | Default        | Required (non-interactive) |
| ------------ | ----- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------------------------- |
| `--type`     |       | Database type (e.g., `postgresql`)       | `postgresql`   | No                         |
| `--name`     | `-n`  | Connection name for saving               | auto-generated | No                         |
| `--host`     | `-H`  | Database host (not for SQLite)           | `localhost`    | No                         |
| `--port`     | `-p`  | Database port (not for SQLite)           | `5432`         | No                         |
| `--user`     | `-u`  | Database username (not for SQLite)       | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--password` | `-w`  | Database password                        | prompt         | No                         |
| `--database` | `-d`  | Database name (not for SQLite)           | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--file`     |       | File path for SQLite connection          | -              | **Yes**                    |
| `--ssl`      |       | Use SSL connection (PostgreSQL only)     | `false`        | No                         |
| `--save`     |       | Save connection configuration            | `true`         | No                         |
| `--test`     |       | Test connection without saving           | `false`        | No                         |
| `--verbose`  |       | Enable verbose logging from `pg_restore` | `false`        | No                         |

### `dbmux list [options]`

List databases, tables, or saved connections.

| Option          | Alias  | Description              |
| --------------- | ------ | ------------------------ |
| `--databases`   | `--db` | List all databases       |
| `--tables`      | `-t`   | List tables in database  |
| `--connections` | `-c`   | List saved connections   |
| `--connection`  | `-n`   | Use specific connection  |
| `--schema`      |        | Schema for table listing |
| `--limit`       | `-l`   | Limit number of rows     |

### `dbmux query [options]`

Execute SQL queries with flexible output.

| Option         | Alias | Description                    | Default |
| -------------- | ----- | ------------------------------ | ------- |
| `--sql`        | `-q`  | SQL query to execute           |         |
| `--file`       | `-f`  | Execute SQL from file          |         |
| `--connection` | `-n`  | Use saved connection           |         |
| `--format`     |       | Output format (table/json/csv) | table   |
| `--limit`      | `-l`  | Limit number of rows           |         |

### `dbmux dump [options]`

Create a backup of a PostgreSQL database. This command requires `pg_dump` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

| Option         | Alias      | Description                                   | Default  |
| -------------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `--connection` | `-c`, `-n` | Use a specific saved connection               | default  |
| `--database`   | `-d`       | The database to dump (interactive if not set) | -        |
| `--output`     | `-o`       | The output file path (e.g., `backup.dump`)    | auto-gen |
| `--format`     | `-F`       | Dump format (`custom`, `plain`, `tar`, `dir`) | `custom` |
| `--verbose`    |            | Enable verbose logging from `pg_dump`         | `false`  |

### `dbmux restore [options]`

Restore a PostgreSQL database from a dump file. This command requires `pg_restore` and `psql` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

| Option         | Alias      | Description                                       | Default |
| -------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `--connection` | `-c`, `-n` | Use a specific saved connection                   | default |
| `--file`       | `-f`       | The dump file to restore (interactive if not set) | -       |
| `--database`   | `-d`       | The target database name (interactive if not set) | -       |
| `--create`     |            | Create the target database before restoring       | `false` |
| `--drop`       |            | Drop the database before recreating and restoring | `false` |
| `--verbose`    |            | Enable verbose logging from `pg_restore`          | `false` |

### `dbmux config <subcommand>`

Manage configuration and connections.

- `dbmux config add` - Add a new connection interactively
- `dbmux config list` - List all saved connections
- `dbmux config remove [name]` - Remove a connection (interactive if name is omitted)
- `dbmux config default -n <name>` - Set default connection
- `dbmux config show` - Show config file and settings

## Configuration

DBMux stores configuration in `~/.dbmux/config.json`. Each connection now has a `type` field.

```json
{
    "connections": {
        "my-postgres": {
            "type": "postgresql",
            "host": "localhost",
            "port": 5432,
            "user": "postgres",
            "database": "myapp_dev",
            "ssl": false
        },
        "my-sqlite": {
            "type": "sqlite",
            "filePath": "./db.sqlite"
        }
    },
    "defaultConnection": "local",
    "settings": {
        "logLevel": "info",
        "autoConnect": false,
        "queryTimeout": 30000
    }
}
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── commands/          # Command implementations
│   ├── connect.ts     # Database connection logic
│   ├── dump.ts        # Database dump operations (pg_dump)
│   ├── restore.ts     # Database restore operations (pg_restore)
│   ├── list.ts        # List databases/tables/connections
│   ├── query.ts       # SQL query execution
│   └── config.ts      # Configuration management
├── db-drivers/        # Database-specific implementations
│   ├── database-driver.ts
│   └── postgres-driver.ts
├── types/             # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── database.ts    # Database-related types
├── utils/             # Utility functions
│   ├── config.ts      # Configuration file management
│   ├── database.ts    # PostgreSQL connection utilities
│   ├── dump-restore.ts # Dump & restore utility functions
│   └── logger.ts      # Colored logging utilities
└── index.ts           # Main CLI entry point (BroCLI)
.
├── .cursorules        # Your custom rules for the assistant
├── .prettierrc.json   # Prettier formatting rules
└── eslint.config.js   # ESLint configuration
```

## Dependencies

**Runtime:**

- `@drizzle-team/brocli` - Modern CLI framework
- `pg` - PostgreSQL client for Node.js
- `cli-table3` - For displaying tabular data
- `@inquirer/prompts` - For interactive prompts

**Development:**

- `typescript` - Type safety and modern JavaScript features
- `tsx` - TypeScript execution for development
- `eslint` - Code quality linter
- `@typescript-eslint/parser` - ESLint parser for TypeScript
- `@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin` - ESLint rules for TypeScript
- `prettier` - Code formatter
- `eslint-config-prettier` - Disables ESLint formatting rules
- `globals` - ESLint global variables

## npm Publishing

The package is configured for npm publishing with:

- Proper `bin` entry for global installation
- `prepublishOnly` script for automatic building
- Comprehensive `files` array for package inclusion
- Rich metadata and keywords for discoverability

## Detailed Commands

### `connect`

Connect to a database. You can connect to a pre-existing saved connection, or create a new one. Creating a new connection will prompt you to save it for future use.

```bash
dbmux connect
# or specify a saved connection
dbmux connect --name my-connection
```

This command sets the chosen connection as the "active" connection for your current session, which will be used by other commands until you `disconnect` or choose a new one.

### `config`

Manage your saved connections.

- **`config add`**: Interactively add a new connection.
- **`config list`**: List all saved connections.
- **`config remove`**: Remove a saved connection.
- **`config default <name>`**: Set the default connection.
- **`config show`**: Show the full configuration file.
- **`config path`**: Display the path to your config file.
- **`config rename`**: Interactively rename a connection.
- **`config manage`**: Open an interactive menu for connection management.

### `list`

List databases, tables, or saved connections.

- `--databases`: List all databases.
- `--tables`: List tables in the current database.
- `--connections`: List all saved connection names.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: Temporarily switch to a different database for this command.
- `--schema <schema_name>`: Specify a schema (default: `public`).

### `query`

Execute SQL queries.

- `--sql <"query">`: The SQL query to execute.
- `--file <path>`: Path to a `.sql` file.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: Temporarily switch to a different database for this command.
- `--format <format>`: Output format (`table`, `json`, `csv`).
- `--limit <number>`: Limit the number of returned rows.

### `dump`

Create a backup of a PostgreSQL database. This command requires `pg_dump` to be installed and available in your system's PATH.

- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--database <db_name>`: The database to dump (interactive if not set).
- `--output <path>`: Output file path.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose logging.

### `restore`

Restore a database from a dump file.

- `--file <path>`: Path to the dump file.
- `--database <db_name>`: The target database name.
- `--connection <name>`: Use a specific saved connection.
- `--create`: Create the database before restoring.
- `--drop`: Drop the database before restoring.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose logging.

### `status`

Shows the current active (session) and default (saved) connections.

```bash
dbmux status
```

### `disconnect`

Clears the active connection from your session, reverting all subsequent commands to use the saved default connection.

```bash
dbmux disconnect
```

## Contributing

<!-- ... existing code ... -->

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Changelog

For a detailed list of changes, please see the [changelog directory](./changelog).

```

```

```

```
